[Music]
bilbo baggins
and the dwarves watch from the lonely
mountain as the dragon smog
sets lake town ablaze bard breaks out of
prison
and eventually kills smaug with the
black arrow smaug's falling body crushes
the master of lake town
and his cronies who were escaping on a
boat with the town's gold
bard becomes the new leader of lake town
and guides its people to seek refuge
in the ruins of dale thorin having
become possessive of the vast treasure
in the mountain
searches obsessively for the arkhan
stone which bilbo had previously found
but kept hidden upon hearing that
laketown survivors have fled to dale
he orders the entrance of the lonely
mountain sealed off meanwhile
galadriel elrond and saruman
arrive at dougalder and free gandalf
sending him to safety with radagast they
battle and defeat the nazghul
and then face a formless sauron himself
galadriel defeats him in a duel of wits
and banishes him and his forces to the
east
azog marching on erebor with his vast
orc army
sends his son bolg to mount gundabad to
summon their second army
legolas and toriel witness the march of
bolg's army
bolstered by orc berserkers and giant
bats thranduil
and an elf army arrive in dale to
reclaim a treasure once withheld from
them by the dwarf king throar
bard asks thorin for the share of gold
previously promised to the people of
lake town
but thorin refuses gandalf arrives at
dale
to warn bard and thranduil of azog but
thranduil dismisses him
bilbo sneaks the arkhan stone out of
erebor and hands it over to thranduil
and bard
so that they can trade it for the
promised treasures and prevent a battle
thorin angrily refuses the proposal
while bilbo rebukes him for letting
greed cloud his judgment
thorin nearly kills bilbo but is stopped
by gandalf
thorin's cousin dane arrives with his
dwarf army and a battle of dwarves
against elves and
men ensues until azog's army arrives
the forces of dane thranduil and bard
along with gandalf and bilbo band
together against the orcs
a second front is opened when the orcs
attack dale
forcing bard to withdraw his forces to
defend the city
inside erabor thorin suffers traumatic
hallucinations before regaining his
sanity
and leading his company to join the
battle he rides with a few of the
dwarves including fili and keely
to kill azog bilbo follows them using
his magic ring to move through the
combat unseen
meanwhile toriel and legolas arrive to
warn the dwarves of bolg's arrival
azog kills feely as bilbo and the other
dwarves are forced to watch
bolg overpowers toriel and then kills
keely
who had come to her aid legolas battles
bolg and eventually kills him
the great eagles arrive with radagast
and bayern
and the orcs are finally defeated in the
climax
thorin engages azog in a duel and kills
him
but is fatally wounded in the process
bilbo makes peace with the dying thorin
while toriel mourns keely with thranduil
acknowledging their love thrandu will
advises legolas to seek out a dunadine
ranger
in the north who goes by the name
strider thorin is buried with the arkhan
stone
along with keely and philly and dane is
crowned king
as thorin's company settles back into
erebor and dale begins to recover with
barles the leader
bilbo bids farewell to the company's
remaining members and journeys home to
the shire with gandalf
as the two part ways on the outskirts of
the shire gandalf admits his knowledge
of bilbo's ring
and warns him of it although bilbo
assures him that he had lost the ring
bilbo returns to his home to find his
belongings being auctioned off because
he was presumed dead
he stops the sale and starts tidying up
his home revealing he still possesses
the ring
sixty years later bilbo receives a visit
from gandalf on his 111th birthday